In this lecture we'll be learning about
the basic file manipulation commands for
the Hadoop File System or HDFS.
We'll first start by downloading
a text file of words.
We'll use this text file to copy to and
from the local file system in HDFS and
later on we'll use it
to run word count on.
After we download the text file,
we'll open a terminal shell and
copy the text file from
the local file system to HDFS.
Next, we'll copy the file within HDFS and
also see how to copy file from
HDFS to the local file system.
Finally, we'll see how to
delete a file in HDFS.
Let's start.
We're going to download text
file to copy into HDFS.
It doesn't matter what the contents of
the text file is, so we'll download
the complete works of Shakespeare
since it contains interesting text.
First, click on the icon here
to launch a web browser.
Now we'll search Google for
the complete works of Shakespeare.
I'm going to be using
this first link here.
And we'll provide this link
in the reading section.
So this is the complete
works of Shakespeare and
we'll save it to a text file in the local
file system by clicking on the icon here,
the Open Menu and selecting save page.
So we'll call it words.txt.
And the Save in folder, it's going to
save it into the Downloads directory.
Once that completes, we'll open a terminal
window by clicking on the icon here.
So if we go into the downloads
Ddrectory by typing a cd Downloads and
running ls, we can see that words.txt
was successfully downloaded.
Moving on, let's copy words.txt from the
local file system to the HDFS file system.
The command to do this is hadoop
fs- copyFromLocal words.txt.
When I run this,
it'll copy it from the local directory and
local file system to HDFS.
We can see that the file was
copied by running hadoop fs -ls.
You can see that the file
was successfully copied.
Next, we can copy this file
to another file within HDFS.
We can do this by running hadoop
fs -cp words.txt words2.txt.
The first words.txt is the file
that already exists in HDFS.
The second words 2.txt
is the new file that we're going to
create when we run this command.
Let's run it, and again we're can run
hadoopfs-ls to see the files in HDFS.
We can see the original file words.txt,
and the copy that was made, words2.txt.
Let's copy words2.txt from
HDFS to the local filesystem.
We can do this by running hadoop
fs -copyToLocal words2.txt.
After I run this command, I can call ls to
see the contents of the local file system.
So now we have the new file words2.txt
which we've just copied from HDFS.
The last step in this lecture
is to delete a file in HDFS.
We can delete words2.txt
by running hadoop fs,
but is rn words2.txt.
As you can see,
it printed that it deleted the file.
We can also run hadoop fs- ls,
to verify that the file is deleted.
You can see that there's only the original
words.txt, and words2.txt was deleted.